README.md, before:

# verbe-conjugaison-académie-française

This repository hosts a list of French verbs with their conjugations, obtained from the Académie française's (AF) dictionary,
and also the Python scripts used to generate the conjugation tables.

The list of verb infinitives (`infinitives.txt`) is obtained from the AF dictionary, using the script options `-E:GEN-INFINITIVES`.
The list includes all 6,250 verbs that are available in the 9th edition of the dictionary.

## Format of the Release Artefacts

### Files `verbs.json` and `verbs.min.json`

The release artifacts include two JSON files:
- `verbs.json` - The full conjugation data of all verbs in the list, formatted for readability.
- `verbs.min.json` - A minified version of the conjugation data.

> [!note]
> All non-ASCII characters in the JSON file are NOT escaped.
> You should use the appropriate accented characters when accessing the data file.

Each verb infinitive is a key in the JSON file.
Under each infinitive, at most three voices are provided:
1. `voix_active_avoir` - active voice with auxiliary verb "avoir"
2. `voix_active_être` - active voice with auxiliary verb "être"
3. `voix_prono` - verb conjugated in reflexive form

Passive voice is not covered.

There is another extra key `h_aspiré` at the same level as the voices, which indicates whether the verb
begins with an "h aspiré". This value is boolean.

Under each voice, at most four moods and all of their tenses are included:
1. `indicatif` - indicative mood
    - `présent`
    - `imparfait`
    - `passé_simple`
    - `futur_simple`
    - `passé_composé`
    - `plus_que_parfait`
    - `passé_antérieur`
    - `futur_antérieur`
2. `subjonctif` - subjunctive mood
    - `présent`
    - `imparfait`
    - `passé`
    - `plus_que_parfait`
3. `conditionnel` - conditional mood
    - `présent`
    - `passé`
4. `impératif` - imperative mood
    - `présent`
    - `passé`

Note that participles are not included in the release file. You may modify the script `conjugation_parser.py` to parse the
HTML files and extract the participles if you need them.

If a verb is not conjugated in any tenses of a mood, that entire mood will not appear.

Under each tense, six persons are provided:
1. `je` - first person singular
2. `tu` - second person singular
3. `il` - third person singular (masculine)
4. `nous` - first person plural
5. `vous` - second person plural
6. `ils` - third person plural (masculine)

All verb conjugations are in masculine forms. For impersonal verbs, only the third person singular
and plural are conjugated, but the keys of other persons are still present, with values being `null`.

> [!note]
> **Support for French Orthography Reform (retification orthographique du français)**
> 
> Some verbs may have more than one conjugation form due to the orthography reforms.
> The two forms accepted by the AF dictionary are both included in the same key,
> separated by a comma (`,`).

### File `verbs.db`

> [!note]
> Unlike the JSON files, table names and column names in the database are NON-ACCENTED.
> You should use the non-accented names when accessing the database.

An SQLite3 database file containing the conjugation data of all verbs in the list.
The database has three tables:
- `ACTIVE_AVOIR` - Conjugation data for active voice with auxiliary verb "avoir"
- `ACTIVE_ETRE` - Conjugation data for active voice with auxiliary verb "être"
- `PRONOMINAL` - Conjugation data for reflexive verbs

The columns of each table are identical, they are:
- **`verb` (Primary Key) - The infinitive of the verb**
- `ind_present` - Indicatif, présent
- `ind_passe_simple` - Indicatif, passé simple
- `ind_futur_simple` - Indicatif, future simple
- `ind_passe_compose` - Indicatif, passé composé
- `ind_plus_que_parfait` - Indicatif, plus-que-parfait
- `ind_passe_anterieur` - Indicatif, passé antérieur
- `ind_futur_anterieur` - Indicatif, futur antérieur
- `ind_imparfait` - Indicatif, imperfect
- `sub_present` - Subjonctif, présent
- `sub_passe` - Subjonctif, passé
- `sub_imparfait` - Subjonctif, imparfait
- `sub_plus_que_parfait` - Subjonctif, plus-que-parfait
- `con_present` - Conditionnel, présent
- `con_passe` - Conditionnel, passé
- `imp_present` - Impératif, présent
- `imp_passe` - Impératif, passé
- `h_aspire` - Whether the verb begins with an "h aspiré" (boolean - `1` for true, `0` for false)

Each cell, **except for impératif**, contains the conjugation of the verb of all six persons,
in the order of `je`, `tu`, `il`, `nous`, `vous`, `ils`,
separated by a semi-colon (`;`). If only some persons are conjugated, the rest persons will be empty (e.g. `agir` in 
`PRONOMINAL` table, `ind_present` column's value is `;;s'agit;;;`). If none of the persons are conjugated,
the cell will be `NULL`.

For **impératif**, the cell contains only three persons, in the order of `tu`, `nous`, `vous`,
separated by a semi-colon (`;`).

> [!note]
> Like the JSON files, if more than one conjugation form is accepted by the AF dictionary
> due to the orthography reforms, the two forms are separated by a comma (`,`). For example, the verb
> `feuilleter` in table `ACTIVE_AVOIR`, column `ind_futur_simple` has the value
> `feuilletterai,feuillèterai;feuilletteras,feuillèteras;feuillettera,feuillètera;feuilletterons,feuillèterons;feuilletterez,feuillèterez;feuilletteront,feuillèteront`

## Running the Script

```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt    # Install dependencies
python crawler.py [options]        # Run the crawler script
```

### Command Line Options

#### Overwrite Options
- `-O:COOKIE-JSESSION-ID <JSESSION_ID>` - Overwrite the JSESSION_ID issued by the AF website when you visit the page.
The script attempts to obtain it automatically, but you may overwrite it manually if needed.
- `-O:USER-AGENT <USER_AGENT>` - Overwrite the user agent string used by the script.

#### Configuration Options
- `-C:IGNORE-CACHE` - Ignore the cached HTML files and always fetch the latest data from the AF website. False by default.
- `-C:MAX-RETRY <n>` - Set the maximum number of retries if HTTP requests fail. Default is 3.
- `-C:REQUESTS-DELAY <n>` - The delay between HTTP requests in ms. Default is 500 (half a second).
Set this to a higher value if the server blocks your IP for too many requests.
- `-C:VERBOSE` - Enable verbose output to see more details about the script's execution. False by default.

#### Extension Options
- `-E:GEN-SQLITE3` - Generate an SQLite3 database file of the conjugation data (`verbs.db`). False by default.
- `-E:GEN-INFINITIVES` - Generate a file of all verb infinitives (`./output/infinitives.txt`) from the AF dictionary. False by default.
(_Using this extension will only generate the infinitives list, not the conjugation data._)

> [!note]
> Running the script against the full list of verbs can take up to 8 hours.
> You are suggested to run the script with a subset of verbs that you need, and use the
> uploaded files in the [Releases](https://github.com/ShingZhanho/verbe-conjugaison-academie-francaise/releases)
> section for the full list of verbs.

Commit message:

refactor: remove accents in JSON keys

README.md, after:

# verbe-conjugaison-académie-française

This repository hosts a list of French verbs with their conjugations, obtained from the Académie française's (AF) dictionary,
and also the Python scripts used to generate the conjugation tables.

The list of verb infinitives (`infinitives.txt`) is obtained from the AF dictionary, using the script options `-E:GEN-INFINITIVES`.
The list includes all 6,250 verbs that are available in the 9th edition of the dictionary.

## Format of the Release Artefacts

### Files `verbs.json` and `verbs.min.json`

The release artifacts include two JSON files:
- `verbs.json` - The full conjugation data of all verbs in the list, formatted for readability.
- `verbs.min.json` - A minified version of the conjugation data.

> [!note]
> All non-ASCII characters in the JSON file are NOT escaped.
> All JSON keys have their accents removed, and are in lowercase.

Each verb infinitive is a key in the JSON file.
Under each infinitive, at most three voices are provided:
1. `voix_active_avoir` - active voice with auxiliary verb "avoir"
2. `voix_active_etre` - active voice with auxiliary verb "être"
3. `voix_prono` - verb conjugated in reflexive form

Passive voice is not covered.

There is another extra key `h_aspire` at the same level as the voices, which indicates whether the verb
begins with an "h aspiré". This value is boolean.

Under each voice, at most four moods and all of their tenses are included:
1. `indicatif` - indicative mood
    - `present`
    - `imparfait`
    - `passe_simple`
    - `futur_simple`
    - `passe_compose`
    - `plus_que_parfait`
    - `passe_anterieur`
    - `futur_anterieur`
2. `subjonctif` - subjunctive mood
    - `present`
    - `imparfait`
    - `passe`
    - `plus_que_parfait`
3. `conditionnel` - conditional mood
    - `present`
    - `passé`
4. `imperatif` - imperative mood
    - `present`
    - `passe`

Note that participles are not included in the release file. You may modify the script `conjugation_parser.py` to parse the
HTML files and extract the participles if you need them.

If a verb is not conjugated in any tenses of a mood, that entire mood will not appear.

Under each tense, six persons are provided:
1. `je` - first person singular
2. `tu` - second person singular
3. `il` - third person singular (masculine)
4. `nous` - first person plural
5. `vous` - second person plural
6. `ils` - third person plural (masculine)

All verb conjugations are in masculine forms. For impersonal verbs, only the third person singular
and plural are conjugated, but the keys of other persons are still present, with values being `null`.

> [!note]
> **Support for French Orthography Reform (retification orthographique du français)**
> 
> Some verbs may have more than one conjugation form due to the orthography reforms.
> The two forms accepted by the AF dictionary are both included in the same key,
> separated by a comma (`,`).

### File `verbs.db`

An SQLite3 database file containing the conjugation data of all verbs in the list.
The database has three tables:
- `ACTIVE_AVOIR` - Conjugation data for active voice with auxiliary verb "avoir"
- `ACTIVE_ETRE` - Conjugation data for active voice with auxiliary verb "être"
- `PRONOMINAL` - Conjugation data for reflexive verbs

The columns of each table are identical, they are:
- **`verb` (Primary Key) - The infinitive of the verb**
- `ind_present` - Indicatif, présent
- `ind_passe_simple` - Indicatif, passé simple
- `ind_futur_simple` - Indicatif, future simple
- `ind_passe_compose` - Indicatif, passé composé
- `ind_plus_que_parfait` - Indicatif, plus-que-parfait
- `ind_passe_anterieur` - Indicatif, passé antérieur
- `ind_futur_anterieur` - Indicatif, futur antérieur
- `ind_imparfait` - Indicatif, imperfect
- `sub_present` - Subjonctif, présent
- `sub_passe` - Subjonctif, passé
- `sub_imparfait` - Subjonctif, imparfait
- `sub_plus_que_parfait` - Subjonctif, plus-que-parfait
- `con_present` - Conditionnel, présent
- `con_passe` - Conditionnel, passé
- `imp_present` - Impératif, présent
- `imp_passe` - Impératif, passé
- `h_aspire` - Whether the verb begins with an "h aspiré" (boolean - `1` for true, `0` for false)

Each cell, **except for impératif**, contains the conjugation of the verb of all six persons,
in the order of `je`, `tu`, `il`, `nous`, `vous`, `ils`,
separated by a semi-colon (`;`). If only some persons are conjugated, the rest persons will be empty (e.g. `agir` in 
`PRONOMINAL` table, `ind_present` column's value is `;;s'agit;;;`). If none of the persons are conjugated,
the cell will be `NULL`.

For **impératif**, the cell contains only three persons, in the order of `tu`, `nous`, `vous`,
separated by a semi-colon (`;`).

> [!note]
> Like the JSON files, if more than one conjugation form is accepted by the AF dictionary
> due to the orthography reforms, the two forms are separated by a comma (`,`). For example, the verb
> `feuilleter` in table `ACTIVE_AVOIR`, column `ind_futur_simple` has the value
> `feuilletterai,feuillèterai;feuilletteras,feuillèteras;feuillettera,feuillètera;feuilletterons,feuillèterons;feuilletterez,feuillèterez;feuilletteront,feuillèteront`

## Running the Script

```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt    # Install dependencies
python crawler.py [options]        # Run the crawler script
```

### Command Line Options

#### Overwrite Options
- `-O:COOKIE-JSESSION-ID <JSESSION_ID>` - Overwrite the JSESSION_ID issued by the AF website when you visit the page.
The script attempts to obtain it automatically, but you may overwrite it manually if needed.
- `-O:USER-AGENT <USER_AGENT>` - Overwrite the user agent string used by the script.

#### Configuration Options
- `-C:IGNORE-CACHE` - Ignore the cached HTML files and always fetch the latest data from the AF website. False by default.
- `-C:MAX-RETRY <n>` - Set the maximum number of retries if HTTP requests fail. Default is 3.
- `-C:REQUESTS-DELAY <n>` - The delay between HTTP requests in ms. Default is 500 (half a second).
Set this to a higher value if the server blocks your IP for too many requests.
- `-C:VERBOSE` - Enable verbose output to see more details about the script's execution. False by default.

#### Extension Options
- `-E:GEN-SQLITE3` - Generate an SQLite3 database file of the conjugation data (`verbs.db`). False by default.
- `-E:GEN-INFINITIVES` - Generate a file of all verb infinitives (`./output/infinitives.txt`) from the AF dictionary. False by default.
(_Using this extension will only generate the infinitives list, not the conjugation data._)

> [!note]
> Running the script against the full list of verbs can take up to 8 hours.
> You are suggested to run the script with a subset of verbs that you need, and use the
> uploaded files in the [Releases](https://github.com/ShingZhanho/verbe-conjugaison-academie-francaise/releases)
> section for the full list of verbs.
